link: https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/reactjs-tutorial/reactjs-interview-questions

1. What are the features of React?
-virtual DOM
-state management
-jsx
-----------------
-components
-one way data binding

2. What is JSX?
-way to write html pseudo elements in JS


3. Can web browsers read JSX directly?
-no, needs an interpreter to turn jsx => JS => DOM nodes

4. What is the virtual DOM?
-a lightweight copy of the DOM that react uses to detect changes to the UI by comparing to the actual DOM


5. Why use React instead of other frameworks, like Angular?
more lightweight, better data ctrl
-------
less code/more simple
better performance (lightweight)
reusable components
better debug tools


6. What is the difference between the ES6 and ES5 standards?
-arrow functions
-promises
-async/await (?)
-----------
extends
import statements (vs require)



7. How do you create a React app?
easiest way = via npm package



8. What is an event in React?
an event is a user interaction with the UI or a system triggered event


9. How do you create an event in React?
use a react eventListener placed on the component or JSX element - camelCased listener that indicates the desired event
  -pass eventListener a handler function
  -same syntax as HTML attribute


10. What are synthetic events in React?
--------------
Synthetic events combine the response of different browser's native events into one API, ensuring that the events are consistent across different browsers.
The application is consistent regardless of the browser it is running in. Here, preventDefault is a synthetic event.




11. Explain how lists (UL and OL) work in React
same as in normal JS


12. Why is there a need for using keys in Lists?
to uniquely identify each element of a list. this ensures that changes to that element can be registered properly by the DOM and V DOM and subsequently updated properly


13. What are forms in React?
forms enable user int with webpage. can be used to collect data from the user


15. How do you write comments in React?
same as in JS but in render method {/*________*/}


16. What is an arrow function and how is it used in React?
shorthand for defining a function: 3 parts:
  -parameters defined in ()
  - =>
  - code block
    - if simple function, do not have to include a retun statement



17. How is React different from React Native?
-react native is react optimized for mobile


18. How is React different from Angular?
-React: one way data binding => Ang: 2 way


19. What are the components in React?
reusable blocks of code that can internally manage their own data and recieve data from parent components

----------
pieces of UI
enable UI to be seperated into independent blocks that can be processed independently


20. What is the use of render() in React?
the render method displays the component to the UI


21. What is a state in React?
state is data that the react component manages itself
--------
upon changes to state, the component (and child components) will rerender


22. How do you implement state in React?
class: state obj in constructor

function: use of react hooks


23. How do you update the state of a component?
class: setState

function: 2nd element of returned array from useState function



24. What are props in React?
props are read only data passed to a component from its parent. used to share data bw components


25. How do you pass props between components?
similar syntax to HTML attributes


26. What are the differences between state and props?
state is mutable and internally managed by a component
props are read only and passed to a component


27. What is a higher-order component in React?
components that render child components



28. How can you embed two or more components into one?
using higher order components


29. What are the differences between class and functional components?


30. Explain the lifecycle methods of components.
